# How to Use this project

!!! info "Contribute!"
    If you make changes to the existing code, why not create a
    feature-branch and a Pull-Request to have it included into the Template? ðŸ˜Š

    See [Contributing](../contributing.md) for more info.

## Installation

### As a GitHub template

Click the 'Use this template' button at the top of the Repository on GitHub.
This will create a new repository in your personal GitHub account (Not a Fork)
which you can then Clone and start working on.

It is assumed that you have at least some knowledge of
[FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/){:target="_blank"} to use this template,
there are very good
[Basic](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/){:target="_blank"} and
[Advanced](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/advanced/){:target="_blank"} User Guides
on the FastAPI website .

### As a Fork

You can also fork this project as usual, which allows you to easily bring it up
to date with changes and improvements as they happen. This does have the
posibility of conflicts. As long as you stick to adding new models and routes
but not modifying the existing base code it should be ok.

### Upgrading from a Patch file

In the
[CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/seapagan/fastapi-template/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md){:target="_blank"}
file, there are links to `Patch` and `Diff` files to enable you to upgrade from
a previous release. These can be applied by Git and will upgrade the Template
code to that release. The same warning applies as above - your changes can cause
merge conflicts.

If you were a few releases behind, you can apply the patches in ascending
version order to get to the latest release.

See [git apply](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-apply){:target="_blank"} and [git
am](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-am){:target="_blank"} for more information on
how to apply these.

## Set GitHub Actions Secrets

The only secret you need to set for the GitHub Actions is for
[Codacy](https://www.codacy.com/){:target="_blank"} which is used for automatic
code quality checks and test coverage reports.

### Codacy API Token

To use this, you will need to set up a (free) acccount with
[Codacy](https://www.codacy.com/signup-codacy) to get your project token. You
will then need to set the following secrets in your GitHub repository settings
(`Settings -> Secrets and variables`):

- `CODACY_PROJECT_TOKEN` - Your Codacy Project Token.

!!! tip

    See the next section if you don't want to use Codacy for test coverage.

Note that this is the specific repository secrets, not in your profile settings.
See the [Codacy
Docs](https://docs.codacy.com/codacy-api/api-tokens/#project-api-tokens){:target="_blank"}
for more information and how to get your repository token.

!!! danger "Important"

    You will need to set the `CODACY_PROJECT_TOKEN` secret in your GitHub
    repository settings both for `Actions` **AND** `Dependabot`. Set the same
    variable and value in both places.

    If you do not set this, the Codacy checks will fail and Dependabot will not
    be able to merge Pull Requests.

## Disable Test Coverage Reports (Optional)

If you do not want to use Codacy for test coverage reports, you can disable the
uploading of the reports by changing a variable in the
`.github/workflows/tests.yml` file.

Change the `SKIP_COVERAGE_UPLOAD` variable to `true` in the `env` section of the
`tests` job. For example:

```yaml hl_lines="5"
jobs:
  test:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    env:
      SKIP_COVERAGE_UPLOAD: true
    strategy:
```

To revert this, change it back to `false`.
